# Rolling Updates & RollBack 모의고사



1. We have deployed a simple web application. Inspect the PODs and the Services
   Wait for the application to fully deploy and view the application using the link called `Webapp Portal` above your terminal.

2. What is the current color of the web application?

   Access the Webapp Portal.

3. Run the script named `curl-test.sh` to send multiple requests to test the web application. Take a note of the output.

   Execute the script at `/root/curl-test.sh`.

   ```
   $ sh curl-test.sh
   ```

4. Inspect the deployment and identify the number of PODs deployed by it

   **Hint**

   Run the command `kubectl describe deployment` and look at `Desired Replicas`

   ```
   $ kubectl describe deployment
   ```

5. What container image is used to deploy the applications?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe deployment
   ```

6. Inspect the deployment and identify the current strategy

   ```
   $ kubectl describe deployment
   ```

7. If you were to upgrade the application now what would happen?

   ```
   Answer: PODs are upgraded few at a time
   ```

8. Let us try that. Upgrade the application by setting the image on the deployment to `kodekloud/webapp-color:v2`

   Do not delete and re-create the deployment. Only set the new image name for the existing deployment.

   - Deployment Name: frontend
   - Deployment Image: kodekloud/webapp-color:v2

   

   Run the command `kubectl edit deployment frontend` and modify the image to `kodekloud/webapp-color:v2`.
   Next, save and exit. The pods should be recreated with the new image.

   ```
   $ kubectl edit deployment frontend
   ---> image kodekloud/webapp-color:v2로 수정
   수정하자마자 새포트가 열리고 이전 포트가 삭제되는 것을 볼 수 있습니다.
   ```

9. Run the script `curl-test.sh` again. Notice the requests now hit both the old and newer versions. However none of them fail.

   Execute the script at `/root/curl-test.sh`.

10. Up to how many PODs can be down for upgrade at a time

    Consider the current strategy settings and number of PODs - 4

    **Hint**

    - 배포 세부 정보의 RollingUpdateStrategy에서 max unavailable 확인

    ```
    $ kubectl describe deployment frontend
    ```

11. Change the deployment strategy to `Recreate`

    Do not delete and re-create the deployment. Only update the strategy type for the existing deployment.

    - Deployment Name: frontend
    - Deployment Image: kodekloud/webapp-color:v2
    - Strategy: Recreate

    **Hint**

    Run the command `kubectl edit deployment frontend` and modify the required field. Make sure to delete the properties of rollingUpdate as well, set at `strategy.rollingUpdate`. (번역: kubectl edit deployment frontend 명령을 실행하고 필수 필드를 수정합니다. Strategy.rollingUpdate에서 설정한 롤링업데이트의 속성도 삭제해야 합니다.)

    ```
    $ kubectl edit deployment frontend
    # 아래와 같이 수정한 후 저장하고 나온다.
      strategy:
        type: Recreate
    ```

12. Upgrade the application by setting the image on the deployment to `kodekloud/webapp-color:v3`

    Do not delete and re-create the deployment. Only set the new image name for the existing deployment.

    - Deployment Name: frontend
    - Deployment Image: kodekloud/webapp-color:v3

    ```
    $ kubectl edit deployment frontend
    ---> image kodekloud/webapp-color:v3로 수정
    ```

13. Run the script `curl-test.sh` again. Notice the failures. Wait for the new application to be ready. Notice that the requests now do not hit both the versions

    Execute the script at `/root/curl-test.sh`.