# 20. Secret 모의고사



1. How many `Secrets` exist on the system?

   in the current(default) namespace

   ```
   $ kubectl get secrets
   ```

2. How many secrets are defined in the `default-token` secret?

   **Solution**

   - Run the command `kubectl describe secrets default-token-<id>` and look at the `data` field.
     There are three secrets - `ca.crt`, `namespace` and `token`.

   ```
   $ kubectl describe secrets default-token-bgm9k
   ```

3. What is the type of the `default-token` secret?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe secrets default-token-bgm9k
   ```

4. Which of the following is not a secret data defined in `default-token` secret?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe secrets default-token-bgm9k
   There are three secrets - `ca.crt`, `namespace` and `token`.
   ```

5. We are going to deploy an application with the below architecture

   We have already deployed the required pods and services. Check out the pods and services created. Check out the web application using the `Webapp MySQL` link above your terminal, next to the Quiz Portal Link.

   OK.

6. The reason the application is failed is because we have not created the secrets yet. Create a new secret named `db-secret` with the data given below.

   You may follow any one of the methods discussed in lecture to create the secret.

   - 
     Secret Name: db-secret
   - Secret 1: DB_Host=sql01
   - Secret 2: DB_User=root
   - Secret 3: DB_Password=password123

   ```
   $ kubectl create secret generic db-secret --from-literal=DB_Host=sql01 --from-literal=DB_User=root --from-literal=DB_Password=password123
   ```

7. Configure `webapp-pod` to load environment variables from the newly created secret.

   Delete and recreate the pod if required.

   - 
     Pod name: webapp-pod
   - Image name: kodekloud/simple-webapp-mysql
   - Env From: Secret=db-secret

   **Hint**

   - Expose the secret as an environment variable to be used the `webapp-pod` pod.

     Refer the documentation by clicking the tab called `Use Secrets in a Pod`

8. View the web application to verify it can successfully connect to the database