# 22. Init Containers 모의고사 



1. Identify the pod that has an `initContainer` configured.

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `kubectl describe pod` and check which pod has InitContainers.

   **Solution**

   - Run the command `kubectl describe pod blue`. It has an InitContainer called `init-myservice`

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod
   ```

2. What is the image used by the `initContainer` on the `blue` pod?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod blue
   ```

3. What is the state of the `initContainer` on pod `blue`

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod blue
   ```

4. Why is the `initContainer` terminated? What is the reason?

   **Hint**

   - Check the `Reason` field for the initContainer in the `kubectl describe pod blue` command. This container was terminated after sleeping for 5 seconds.

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod blue
   ```

5. We just created a new app named `purple`. How many `initContainers` does it have?

   ```
   $ $ kubectl describe pod purple
   ```

6. What is the state of the POD?

   **Hint**

   - Run the `kubectl describe pod purple` command and look at the `Status` of the pod.

   ```
   $ k get pods
   NAME     READY   STATUS     RESTARTS   AGE
   red      1/1     Running    0          25m
   green    2/2     Running    0          25m
   blue     1/1     Running    0          25m
   purple   0/1     Init:0/2   0          5m19s
   ```

   Answer: Pending

7. How long after the creation of the POD will the application come up and be available to users?

   **Hint**

   - Check the commands used in the `initContainers`. The first one sleeps for 600 seconds (10 minutes) and the second one sleeps for 1200 seconds (20 minutes)

   **Solution**

   - Adding the sleep times for both `initContainers`, the application will start after `1800 seconds` or `30 minutes`.

8. Update the pod `red` to use an `initContainer` that uses the `busybox` image and `sleeps for 20` seconds

   Delete and re-create the pod if necessary. But make sure no other configurations change.

   - 
     Pod: red
   - initContainer Configured Correctly

   ```yaml
   $ kubectl get pod red -o yaml > pod-red-08.yaml
   pod-red-08.yaml에 아래 내용 추가
   initContainers:
     - name: init-my-red
       image: busybox
       command: ['sleep', '20']
   ```

   ```
   $ kubectl create -f pod-red-08.yaml
   ```

9. A new application `orange` is deployed. There is something wrong with it. Identify and fix the issue.

   Once fixed, wait for the application to run before checking solution.

   - Issue fixed

   **Hint**

   - Check the command used by the `initContainer` and correct it.

   **Solution**

   - There is a typo in the command used by the initContainer. To fix this, first get the pod definition file by running `kubectl get pod orange -o yaml > /root/orange.yaml`.
     Next, edit the command and fix the typo.
     Then, delete the old pod by running `kubectl delete pod orange`
     Finally, create the pod again by running `kubectl create -f /root/orange.yaml`

   ```yaml
   $ kubectl get pod orange -o yaml > pod-orange-09.yaml
   pod-orange-09.yaml 에서 initContainer 부분에 command 아래와 같이 수정
   
   initContainers:
     - command:
       - sh
       - -c
       - sleep 2
   ```

   