# 26. View Certificate Details (CKA 시험 안나옴)



1. Identify the certificate file used for the `kube-api server`

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml` and look for the line --tls-cert-file

   ```
   $ cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml | grep -i cert
   or
   $ kubectl describe pod -n kube-system kube-apiserver-controlplane
   ```

2. Identify the Certificate file used to authenticate `kube-apiserver` as a client to `ETCD` Server

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml` and look for value of `etcd-certfile` flag.

   ```
   $ cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml | grep -i etcd-certfile
   or
   $ kubectl describe pod -n kube-system kube-apiserver-controlplane
   ```

3. Identify the key used to authenticate `kubeapi-server` to the `kubelet` server

   **Hint**

   - Look for kubelet-client-key option in the file `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml`

   ```
   $ cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml | grep -i kubelet-client-key
   or
   $ kubectl describe pod -n kube-system kube-apiserver-controlplane
   ```

4. Identify the ETCD Server Certificate used to host ETCD server

   **Hint**

   - Look for `cert-file` option in the file `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml`

   ```
   $ cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml | grep -i cert
   ```

5. Identify the ETCD Server CA Root Certificate used to serve ETCD Server

   ETCD can have its own CA. So this may be a different CA certificate than the one used by kube-api server.

   **Hint**

   - Look for CA Certificate (`trusted-ca-file`) in file `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml`

6. What is the Common Name (CN) configured on the Kube API Server Certificate?

   **OpenSSL Syntax:** `openssl x509 -in file-path.crt -text -noout`

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt -text` and look for Subject CN.

7. What is the name of the CA who issued the Kube API Server Certificate?

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt -text` and look for issuer

8. Which of the below alternate names is not configured on the Kube API Server Certificate?

   - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt -text` and look at Alternative Names

9. What is the Common Name (CN) configured on the ETCD Server certificate?

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt -text` and look for Subject CN.

10. How long, from the issued date, is the Kube-API Server Certificate valid for?

    File: `/etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt`

    **Hint**

    - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt -text` and check on the Expiry date.

11. How long, from the issued date, is the Root CA Certificate valid for?

    File: `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt`

    **Hint**

    - Run the command `openssl x509 -in /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt -text` and look for validity

12. Kubectl suddenly stops responding to your commands. Check it out! Someone recently modified the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml` file

    You are asked to investigate and fix the issue. Once you fix the issue wait for sometime for kubectl to respond. Check the logs of the ETCD container.

    - Fix the kube-api server

    **Hint**

    - Inspect the `--cert-file` option in the manifests file.

    **Solution**

    - The certificate file used here is incorrect. It is set to `/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server-certificate.crt` which does not exist. As we saw in the previous questions the correct path should be `/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt`.

      ```
      root@controlplane:~# ls -l /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server* | grep .crt
      -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1188 May 20 00:41 /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt
      root@controlplane:~# 
      ```

      Update the YAML file with the correct certificate path and wait for the ETCD pod to be recreated. wait for the `kube-apiserver` to get to a `Ready` state.

      **NOTE**: It may take a few minutes for the kubectl commands to work again so please be patient.

13. The kube-api server stopped again! Check it out. Inspect the kube-api server logs and identify the root cause and fix the issue.

    Run `docker ps -a` command to identify the kube-api server container. Run `docker logs container-id` command to view the logs.

    - Fix the kube-api server

    **Hint**

    - ETCD has its own CA. The right CA must be used for the ETCD-CA file in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml`

    **Solution**

    - If we inspect the `kube-apiserver` container on the controlplane, we can see that it is frequently exiting.

      ```
      root@controlplane:~# docker ps -a | grep kube-apiserver
      8af74bd23540        ca9843d3b545           "kube-apiserver --ad…"   39 seconds ago      Exited (1) 17 seconds ago                          k8s_kube-apiserver_kube-apiserver-controlplane_kube-system_f320fbaff7813586592d245912262076_4
      c9dc4df82f9d        k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.2   "/pause"                 3 minutes ago       Up 3 minutes                                       k8s_POD_kube-apiserve-controlplane_kube-system_f320fbaff7813586592d245912262076_1
      root@controlplane:~# 
      ```

      If we now inspect the logs of this exited container, we would see the following errors:

      ```
      root@controlplane:~# docker logs 8af74bd23540  --tail=2
      W0520 01:57:23.333002       1 clientconn.go:1223] grpc: addrConn.createTransport failed to connect to {https://127.0.0.1:2379  <nil> 0 <nil>}. Err :connection error: desc = "transport: authentication handshake failed: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority". Reconnecting...
      Error: context deadline exceeded
      root@controlplane:~# 
      ```

      This indicates an issue with the ETCD CA certificate used by the `kube-apiserver`. Correct it to use the file `/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt`.

      Once the YAML file has been saved, wait for the kube-apiserver pod to be `Ready`. This can take a couple of minutes.