# 31. Service Accounts 모의고사



1. How many Service Accounts exist in the default namespace?

   ```
   $ kubectl get sa
   $ kubectl describe sa default
   ```

   

2. What is the secret token used by the default service account?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe sa default
   ```



3. We just deployed the Dashboard application. Inspect the deployment. What is the image used by the deployment?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe deploy 
   ```



4. Wait for the deployment to be ready. Access the custom-dashboard by clicking on the link to dashboard portal.

   

5. What is the state of the dashboard? Have the pod details loaded successfully?

   `Answer: Fail`

   

6. What type of account does the Dashboard application use to query the Kubernetes API?

   **Hint**

   - As evident from the error in the `web-dashboard` UI, the pod makes used of a service account to query the Kubernetes API.



7. Which account does the Dashboard application use to query the Kubernetes API?

   `web-dashboard에 있음`

   

8. Inspect the Dashboard Application POD and identify the Service Account mounted on it.

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod
   ```



9. At what location is the ServiceAccount credentials available within the pod?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod
   ```



10. The application needs a ServiceAccount with the Right permissions to be created to authenticate to Kubernetes. The 'default' ServiceAccount has limited access. Create a new ServiceAccount named 'dashboard-sa'.

    - Secret Name: dashboard-sa

    **Hint**

    - Run command `kubectl create serviceaccount dashboard-sa`

    ```
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount dashboard-sa
    ```



11. We just added additional permissions for the newly created `dashboard-sa` account using RBAC.

    If you are interested checkout the files used to configure RBAC at /var/rbac. We will discuss RBAC in a separate section.



12. Enter the access token in the UI of the dashboard application. Click `Load Dashboard` button to load Dashboard

    Retrieve the Authorization token for the newly created service account , copy it and paste it into the `token` field of the UI.

    To do this, run `kubectl describe` against the secret created for the `dashboard-sa` service account, copy the token and paste it in the UI.



13. You shouldn't have to copy and paste the token each time. The Dashboard application is programmed to read token from the secret mount location. However currently, the 'default' service account is mounted. Update the deployment to use the newly created ServiceAccount

    Edit the deployment to change ServiceAccount from 'default' to 'dashboard-sa'

    - Deployment name: web-dashboard
    - Service Account: dashboard-sa
    - Deployment Ready

    **Hint**

    - Use the `serviceAccountName` field inside the pod spec.

    **Solution**

    Use following YAML file:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: web-dashboard
      namespace: default
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          name: web-dashboard
      strategy:
        rollingUpdate:
          maxSurge: 25%
          maxUnavailable: 25%
        type: RollingUpdate
      template:
        metadata:
          creationTimestamp: null
          labels:
            name: web-dashboard
        spec:
          serviceAccountName: dashboard-sa
          containers:
          - image: gcr.io/kodekloud/customimage/my-kubernetes-dashboard
            imagePullPolicy: Always
            name: web-dashboard
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
              protocol: TCP    
    ```



14. Refresh the Dashboard application UI and you should now see the PODs listed automatically.

    This time you shouldn't have to put in the token manually.