# 32. Image Security 모의고사



1. We have an application running on our cluster. Let us explore it first. What image is the application using?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe pod | grep -i image
   ```

   `Answer: nginx:alpine`

   

2. We decided to use a modified version of the application from an internal private registry. Update the image of the deployment to use a new image from `myprivateregistry.com:5000`

   The registry is located at `myprivateregistry.com:5000`. Don't worry about the credentials for now. We will configure them in the upcoming steps.

   - Use Image from private registry

   **Hint**

   - Use the `kubectl edit deployment` command to edit the image name to `myprivateregistry.com:5000/nginx:alpine`.



3. Are the new PODs created with the new images successfully running?

   `Answer: No`



4. Create a secret object with the credentials required to access the registry.

   Name: `private-reg-cred`
   Username: `dock_user`
   Password: `dock_password`
   Server: `myprivateregistry.com:5000`
   Email: `dock_user@myprivateregistry.com`

   - Secret: private-reg-cred
   - Secret Type: docker-registry
   - Secret Data

   ```
   $ kubectl create secret docker-registry private-reg-cred --docker-server=myprivateregistry.com:5000 --docker-username=dock_user --docker-password=dock_password --docker-email=dock_user@myprivateregistry.com
   ```



5. Configure the deployment to use credentials from the new secret to pull images from the private registry

   - Image Pull Secret: private-reg-cred

   ```
   $ kubectl edit deploy
   ---> 아래와 같이 추가해주면 된다 추가해줄 때  document를 참고해 열 위치를 잘 확인한다.
   imagePullSecrets:
     - name: private-reg-cred
   ```



6. Check the status of PODs. Wait for them to be running. You have now successfully configured a Deployment to pull images from the private registry.