# 36. Storage Class 모의고사

1. How many `StorageClasses` exist in the cluster right now?
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get storageclass
   #or
   $ kubectl get sc
   ```

2. How about now? How many Storage Classes exist in the cluster?
   
   We just created a few new Storage Classes. Inspect them.
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get storageclass
   ```

3. What is the name of the `Storage Class` that does not support `dynamic` volume provisioning?
   
   **Hint**
   
   - Look for the storage class name that uses `no-provisioner`
   
   **Solution**
   
   - The `local-storage` storage class makes use of the no-provisioner and currently does not support dynamic provisioning.
     Refer to the tab above the terminal (called Local Storage) to read more about it.
   
   ```
   $ kubectl describe storageclass
   ```

4. What is the `Volume Binding Mode` used for this storage class (the one identified in the previous question).
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get storageclass
   ```

5. What is the `Provisioner` used for the storage class called `portworx-io-priority-high`?
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get storageclassxxxxxxxxxx $ kubectl get storageclass$ 
   ```

6. Is there a `PersistentVolumeClaim` that is consuming the `PersistentVolume` called `local-pv`?
   
   **Hint**
   
   - Run the command: `kubectl get pvc` and inspect it.
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get pvc
   ```

7. Let's fix that. Create a new `PersistentVolumeClaim` by the name of `local-pvc` that should bind to the volume `local-pv`.
   
   Inspect the pv `local-pv` for the specs.
   
   - PVC: local-pvc
   - Correct Access Mode?
   - Correct StorageClass Used?
   - PVC requests volume size = 500Mi?
   
   **Hint**
   
   - Inspect the persistent volume and look for the Access Mode, Storage and StorageClassName used. Use this information to create the PVC.
   
   **Solution**
   
   Use the below YAML file to create the PersistentVolumeClaim **local-pvc**:
   
   ```yaml
   ---
   kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
   apiVersion: v1
   metadata:
     name: local-pvc
   spec:
     accessModes:
     - ReadWriteOnce
     storageClassName: local-storage
     resources:
       requests:
         storage: 500Mi
   ```

8. What is the status of the newly created Persistent Volume Claim?
   
   ```
   $ kubectl get pvc
   ```

9. Why is the PVC in a pending state despite making a valid request to claim the volume called `local-pv`?
   
   Inspect the PVC events.
   
   **Hint**
   
   - Run the command: `kubectl describe pvc local-pvc` and look under the `Events` section.
   
   **Solution**
   
   - The StorageClass used by the PVC uses `WaitForFirstConsumer` volume binding mode. This means that the persistent volume will not bind to the claim until a pod makes use of the PVC to request storage.
     
     ```sh
     root@controlplane:~# kubectl describe pvc local-pvc | grep -A3 Events
     Events:
       Type    Reason                Age               From                         Message
       ----    ------                ----              ----                         -------
       Normal  WaitForFirstConsumer  1s (x7 over 78s)  persistentvolume-controller  waiting for first consumer to be created before binding
     root@controlplane:~# 
     ```
   
   **Answer**: A Pod consuming the volume is not scheduled

10. The Storage Class called `local-storage` makes use of `VolumeBindingMode` set to `WaitForFirstConsumer`. This will delay the binding and provisioning of a PersistentVolume until a Pod using the PersistentVolumeClaim is created.

11. Create a new pod called `nginx` with the image `nginx:alpine`. The Pod should make use of the PVC `local-pvc` and mount the volume at the path `/var/www/html`.
    
    The PV `local-pv` should in a bound state.
    
    - Pod created with the correct Image?
    - Pod uses PVC called local-pvc?
    - local-pv bound?
    - nginx pod running?
    - Volume mounted at the correct path?
    
    **Hint**
    
    - Use the command `kubectl run` to create a pod definition file for `nginx` pod with image `nginx:alpine`. Add mount volume path `/var/www/html` and pvc given in the details.
      Alternatively, run the command:
      `kubectl run nginx --image=nginx:alpine --dry-run=client -oyaml > nginx.yaml`
    
    **Solution**
    
    - Solution manifest file to create a pod called **nginx** is as follows:
    
    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        name: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:alpine
        volumeMounts:
          - name: local-persistent-storage
            mountPath: /var/www/html
      volumes:
        - name: local-persistent-storage
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: local-pvc
    ```

12. What is the status of the `local-pvc` Persistent Volume Claim now?
    
    ```
    $ kubectl get local-pvc
    ```

13. Create a new Storage Class called `delayed-volume-sc` that makes use of the below specs:
    
    `provisioner`: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
    `volumeBindingMode`: WaitForFirstConsumer
    
    - Storage Class uses: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
    - Storage Class volumeBindingMode set to WaitForFirstConsumer ?
    
    **Solution**
    
    Solution manifest file to create a storage class **delayed-volume-sc** as follows:
    
    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
    kind: StorageClass
    metadata:
      name: delayed-volume-sc
    provisioner: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
    volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
    ```