# 39. Deploy Network 모의고사



1. In this practice test we will install `weave-net` POD networking solution to the cluster. Let us first inspect the setup.

   We have deployed an application called `app` in the default namespace. What is the state of the pod?

   `kubectl get pods -n default`

3. Inspect why the POD is not running.

   **Hint**

   - Run the command `kubectl describe pod`

   **Answer**: No Network Configured

4. Deploy `weave-net` networking solution to the cluster.

   Replace the default IP address and subnet of `weave-net` to the `10.50.0.0/16`. Please check the official weave installation and configuration guide which is available at the top right panel.

- Deploy weave

- Wait for the app to run

  **Solution**

  By default, the range of IP addresses and the subnet used by `weave-net` is `10.32.0.0/12` and it's overlapping with the host system IP addresses.
  To know the host system IP address by running `ip a` command :-

  ```shell
  root@controlplane:~# ip a | grep eth0
  12396: eth0@if12397: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UP group default 
      inet 10.40.56.3/24 brd 10.40.56.255 scope global eth0
  ```

  If we deploy a weave manifest file directly without changing the default IP addresses it will overlap with the host system IP addresses and as a result, it's weave pods will go into an `Error` or `CrashLoopBackOff` state.

  ```shell
  root@controlplane:~# kubectl get po -n kube-system | grep weave
  weave-net-6mckb                        1/2     CrashLoopBackOff   6          6m46s
  ```

  If we will go more deeper and inspect the logs then we can clearly see the issue :-

  ```shell
  root@controlplane:~# kubectl logs -n kube-system weave-net-6mckb -c weave
  Network 10.32.0.0/12 overlaps with existing route 10.40.56.0/24 on host
  ```

  So we need to change the default IP address by adding `&env.IPALLOC_RANGE=10.50.0.0/16` option at the end of the manifest file. It should be look like as follows :-

  ```shell
  kubectl apply -f "https://cloud.weave.works/k8s/net?k8s-version=$(kubectl version | base64 | tr -d '\n')&env.IPALLOC_RANGE=10.50.0.0/16"
  ```

  then run the `kubectl get pods -n kube-system` to see the status of `weave-net` pods.
  Note :- `10.40.56.3` IP address is used here as an example. It may be different in your assigned lab.