# 41. Service Networking 모의고사



1. What network range are the nodes in the cluster part of?

   **Hint**

   - Run the command: `ip addr` and look at the IP address assigned to the `eth0` interfaces. Derive network range from that.

   **Solution**

   - one way to do this is to make use of the `ipcalc` utility. If it is not installed, you can install it by running:
     `apt update` and the `apt install ipcalc`

     Then use it to determine the network range as shown below:

     1. First, find the Internal IP of the nodes.

     ```
     root@controlplane:~# ip a | grep eth0 
     4113: eth0@if4114: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UP group default 
         inet 10.2.37.12/24 brd 10.2.37.255 scope global eth0
     root@controlplane:~#
     ```

     1. Next, use the `ipcalc` tool to see the network details:

     ```
     root@controlplane:~# ipcalc -b 10.2.37.12/24                                   
     Address:   10.2.37.12           
     Netmask:   255.255.255.0 = 24   
     Wildcard:  0.0.0.255            
     =>
     Network:   10.2.37.0/24         
     HostMin:   10.2.37.1            
     HostMax:   10.2.37.254          
     Broadcast: 10.2.37.255          
     Hosts/Net: 254                   Class A, Private Internet
     
     root@controlplane:~# 
     ```

     In this example, the network is `10.2.37.0/24`. Note, this may vary for your lab so make sure to check for yourself.

   

2. What is the range of IP addresses configured for PODs on this cluster?

   **Hint**

   - The network is configured with weave. Check the weave pods logs using command `kubectl logs <weave-pod-name> weave -n kube-system` and look for ipalloc-range

   ```
   $ kubectl -n kube-system get pods
   $ kubectl logs <weave-pod-name> -c weave -n kube-system
   # 위 명령어에서 ipalloc-range을 찾아라
   ```



3. What is the IP Range configured for the services within the cluster?

   **Hint**

   - Inspect the setting on kube-api server by running on command `cat /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml | grep cluster-ip-range`



4. How many kube-proxy pods are deployed in this cluster?

   **Hint**

   - Run the command: `kubectl get pods -n kube-system` and look for kube-proxy pods.



5. What type of proxy is the kube-proxy configured to use?

   **Hint**

   - Check the logs of the kube-proxy pods. Run the command: `kubectl logs <kube-proxy-pod-name> -n kube-system`



6. How does this Kubernetes cluster ensure that a kube-proxy pod runs on all nodes in the cluster?

   Inspect the kube-proxy pods and try to identify how they are deployed

   **Hint**

   - Run the command: `kubectl get ds -n kube-system`

