# 42. CoreDNS in Kubernetes



1. Identify the DNS solution implemented in this cluster.

   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get pods -n kube-system` and look for the DNS pods.

   ```
   $ kubectl get pods -n kube-system
   ```



2. How many pods of the DNS server are deployed?
   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get deploy -n kube-system` and look for Desired count of `coredns`.



3. What is the name of the service created for accessing CoreDNS?
   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get service -n kube-system`



4. What is the IP of the CoreDNS server that should be configured on PODs to resolve services?
   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get service -n kube-system` and look for cluster IP value.



5. Where is the configuration file located for configuring the CoreDNS service?
   - **Hint**
     - Inspect the `Args` field of the coredns deployment and check the file used.
   - **Solution**
     - Run the command: `kubectl -n kube-system describe deployments.apps coredns | grep -A2 Args | grep Corefile`



6. How is the Corefile passed in to the CoreDNS POD?

   - **Hint**
     - Use the `kubectl get configmap` command for `kube-system` namespace and inspect the correct ConfigMap.
   - **Solution**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get cm -n kube-system` and look at the `coredns` ConfigMap. It's passed through the ConfigMap volume in the deployment.

   **Answer**

   Configured as a ConfigMap object



7. What is the name of the ConfigMap object created for Corefile?
   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl get configmap -n kube-system` and identify the name.



8. What is the root domain/zone configured for this kubernetes cluster?
   - **Hint**
     - Run the command: `kubectl describe configmap coredns -n kube-system` and look for the entry after kubernetes.



9. We have deployed a set of PODs and Services in the `default` and `payroll` namespaces. Inspect them and go to the next question.



10. What name can be used to access the `hr` web server from the `test` Application?

    You can execute a curl command on the `test` pod to test. Alternatively, the test Application also has a UI. Access it using the tab at the top of your terminal named `test-app`.

    - **Hint**
      - Use the command `kubectl get svc` after viewing the available services, write the correct service name and port.

    ```
    $ kubectl get svc
    $ kubectl get pods
    $ kubectl get pod hr --show-labels
    # 위에서 hr에 연결된 라벨 이름을 확인하고
    $ kubectl describe svc web-service
    # 서비스에 연결된 - >Selector:          name=hr   를 확인한다.
    ```

    Answer: web-service

    

11. Which of the names CANNOT be used to access the HR service from the test pod?

    Answer : web-service.default.pod

    가능 List

    - web-service.default

    - web-service

    - web-service.default.svc



12. Which of the below name can be used to access the `payroll` service from the test application?

    Answer: web-service.payroll



13. Which of the below name CANNOT be used to access the `payroll` service from the test application?

    Answer: web-service.payroll.svc.cluster
    
    가능 List
    
    - web-service.payroll.svc
    - web-service.payroll.svc.cluster.local
    - web-service.payroll

14. We just deployed a web server - `webapp` - that accesses a database `mysql` - server. However the web server is failing to connect to the database server. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.

    - Web Server: webapp
    - Uses the right DB_Host name

    They could be in different namespaces. First locate the applications. The web server interface can be seen by clicking the tab `Web Server` at the top of your terminal.

    - **Hint**
  - Set the `DB_Host` environment variable to use `mysql.payroll`.
    - **Solution**
      - Run the command: `kubectl edit deploy webapp` and correct the `DB_Host` value.



15. From the `hr` pod `nslookup` the `mysql` service and redirect the output to a file `/root/CKA/nslookup.out`

    **Hint**

    - Run the command: `kubectl exec -it hr -- nslookup mysql.payroll > /root/CKA/nslookup.out`

    