# 43. Ingress Netwoking – 1



1. We have deployed Ingress Controller, resources and applications. Explore the setup.

   Note: They are in different namespaces.

2. Which namespace is the `Ingress Controller` deployed in?

   **Hint**

   - Use the command `kubectl get all -A` and identify the namespace of `Ingress Controller`.

   ```
   $ kubectl get all -A
   ```

3. What is the name of the Ingress Controller Deployment?

   ```
   $ kubectl get all -A
   ```

4. Which namespace are the applications deployed in?

   **Hint**

   - Run the command: `kubectl get po -A` and identify the namespaces of deployed `applications`.

5. How many applications are deployed in the `app-space` namespace?

   Count the number of deployments in this namespace.

   ```
   $ kubectl get deploy -A
   ```

6. Which namespace is the Ingress Resource deployed in?

   ```
   $ kubectl get ingress -A
   
   NAMESPACE   NAME                 CLASS    HOSTS   ADDRESS   PORTS   AGE
   app-space   ingress-wear-watch   <none>   *                 80      16m
   ```

7. What is the name of the Ingress Resource?

   ```
   $ kubectl get ingress -A
   
   NAMESPACE   NAME                 CLASS    HOSTS   ADDRESS   PORTS   AGE
   app-space   ingress-wear-watch   <none>   *                 80      16m
   ```

8. What is the `Host` configured on the `Ingress Resource`?

   The host entry defines the domain name that users use to reach the application like `www.google.com`

   **Hint**

   - Run the command: `kubectl describe ingress --namespace app-space` and look at `Host` under the `Rules` section.

   ```
   $ kubectl describe ingress -n app-space
   
   Name:             ingress-wear-watch
   Namespace:        app-space
   Address:          
   Default backend:  default-http-backend:80 (<error: endpoints "default-http-backend" not found>)
   Rules:
     Host        Path  Backends
     ----        ----  --------
     *           
                 /wear    wear-service:8080 (10.244.0.7:8080)
                 /watch   video-service:8080 (10.244.0.5:8080)
   Annotations:  nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
                 nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect: false
   Events:       <none>
   ```

9. What backend is the `/wear` path on the Ingress configured with?

   ```
   $ kubectl describe ingress -n app-space
   ```

10. At what path is the video streaming application made available on the `Ingress`?

    ```
    $ kubectl describe ingress -n app-space
    ```

11. If the requirement does not match any of the configured paths what service are the requests forwarded to?

    **Hint**

    - Run the command: `kubectl describe ingress --namespace app-space` and look at the `Default` backend field.

12. Now view the Ingress Service using the tab at the top of the terminal. Which page do you see?

    Click on the tab named `Ingress`.

13. 

14. You are requested to change the URLs at which the applications are made available.

    Make the video application available at `/stream`.

    - Ingress: ingress-wear-watch
    - Path: /stream
    - Backend Service: video-service
    - Backend Service Port: 8080

    

    **Hint**

    - Run the command: `kubectl edit ingress --namespace app-space` and change the path to the video streaming application to `/stream`.

15. View the Video application using the `/stream` URL in your browser.

    Click on the `Ingress` tab above your terminal, if its not open already, and append `/stream` to the URL in the browser.

16. A user is trying to view the `/eat` URL on the Ingress Service. Which page would he see?

    If not open already, click on the `Ingress` tab above your terminal, and append `/eat` to the URL in the browser.

17. ok

18. You are requested to add a new path to your ingress to make the food delivery application available to your customers.

    Make the new application available at `/eat`.

    **Hint**

    - Run the command: `kubectl edit ingress --namespace app-space` and add a new Path entry for the new service.

19. View the Food delivery application using the `/eat` URL in your browser.

    Click on the `Ingress` tab above your terminal, if its not open already, and append `/eat` to the URL in the browser.

20. A new payment service has been introduced. Since it is critical, the new application is deployed in its own namespace.

    Identify the namespace in which the new application is deployed.

    **Hint**

    - Run the command: `kubectl get deploy --all-namespaces` and inspect the newly created namespace and deployment.

    ```
    $ kubectl get deploy -A
    ```

21. What is the name of the deployment of the new application?

    ```
    $ kubectl get deploy -A
    ```

22. You are requested to make the new application available at `/pay`.

    Identify and implement the best approach to making this application available on the ingress controller and test to make sure its working. Look into annotations: rewrite-target as well.

    - Ingress Created
    - Path: /pay
    - Configure correct backend service
    - Configure correct backend port

    **Hint**

    - Create a new Ingress for the new pay application in the `critical-space` namespace.
      Use the command `kubectl get svc -n critical-space` to know the service and port details.

    **Solution**

    ```
    Solution manifest file to create a new ingress service to make the application available at /pay as follows:
    
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: test-ingress
      namespace: critical-space
      annotations:
        nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
        nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect: "false"
    spec:
      rules:
      - http:
          paths:
          - path: /pay
            pathType: Prefix
            backend:
              service:
               name: pay-service
               port:
                number: 8282
    ```

23. View the Payment application using the `/pay` URL in your browser.

    Click on the `Ingress` tab above your terminal, if its not open already, and append `/pay` to the URL in the browser.

    