# 49. Troubleshoot Network 모의고사

1. `**Troubleshooting Test 1:**` A simple 2 tier application is deployed in the `triton` namespace. It must display a green web page on success. Click on the app tab at the top of your terminal to view your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
   
   Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.
- DB Service working?

- WebApp Service working?
  
  **Hint**

- Do the services in `triton` namespace have a valid endpoint? If they do, check the `kube-proxy` and the `weave` logs.
  Does the cluster have a Network Addon installed?
  
  Install Weave using the link: `https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/#pod-network`
  
  For example: `kubectl apply -f "https://cloud.weave.works/k8s/net?k8s-version=$(kubectl version | base64 | tr -d '\n')"`
2. `**Troubleshooting Test 2:**` The same 2 tier application is having issues again. It must display a green web page on success. Click on the app tab at the top of your terminal to view your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
   
   Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.
   
   - Fix Issue
   
   **Hint**
   
   - There seems to be an issue with the Service Proxy. Inspect and Fix the `kube-proxy` daemonset.
     Check logs of the kube-proxy pod. It appears that the daemonset is using a wrong configuration file.
     Compare the configuration file used in the daemonset with the configmap for kube-proxy.
     Edit the kube-proxy daemonset to correct the configuration file using `kubectl -n kube-system edit ds kube-proxy`.
   
   **Solution**
   
   - The kube-proxy pods are not running. As a result the rules needed to allow connectivity to the services have not been created.
     
     1. Check the logs of the kube-proxy pods `kubectl -n kube-system logs <name_of_the_kube_proxy_pod>`
     
     2. The configuration file `/var/lib/kube-proxy/configuration.conf` is not valid. The configuration path does not match the data in the ConfigMap. kubectl -n kube-system describe configmap kube-proxy shows that the file name used is config.conf which is mounted in the kube-proxy damonset pods at the path `/var/lib/kube-proxy/config.conf`
     
     3. However in the DaemonSet for kube-proxy, the command used to start the kube-proxy pod makes use of the path `/var/lib/kube-proxy/configuration.conf`.
        
        Correct this path to /var/lib/kube-proxy/config.conf as per the ConfigMap and recreate the kube-proxy pods.
     
     Here is the snippet of the command to be run by the kube-proxy pods:
     
     ```
     pec:
           containers:
           - command:
             - /usr/local/bin/kube-proxy
             - --config=/var/lib/kube-proxy/config.conf
             - --hostname-override=$(NODE_NAME)
     ```
     
     This should get the kube-proxy pods back in a running state.
   
   결론: 데몬셋에서 위와 같이 변경하면 끝!